1. Who founded Apple Inc.?
	Exact Answer: Steve Jobs, Steve Wozniak, and Ronald Wayne
	Supporting Sentence: Apple was founded by Steve Jobs, Steve Wozniak, and Ronald Wayne in April 1976 to develop and sell Wozniak's Apple I personal computer.
	Supporting Article: AppleInc.txt


2. Who supported Apple in creating a new computing platform?
	Exact Answer: IBM, and Motorola
	Supporting Sentence: In 1994, Apple, IBM, and Motorola formed the AIM alliance with the goal of creating a new computing platform (the PowerPC Reference Platform), which would use IBM and Motorola hardware coupled with Apple software.
	Supporting Article: AppleInc.txt

	
3. When was Apple Inc. founded?
	Exact Answer: April 1976
	Supporting Sentence: Apple was founded by Steve Jobs, Steve Wozniak, and Ronald Wayne in April 1976 to develop and sell Wozniak's Apple I personal computer.
	Supporting Article: AppleInc.txt


4. When did Apple go public?
	Exact Answer: 1980
	Supporting Sentence: Apple went public in 1980 to instant financial success.
	Supporting Article: AppleInc.txt

	
5. Where is Apple’s headquarters?
	Exact Answer: Cupertino, California
	Supporting Sentence: Apple Inc.'s world corporate headquarters are located in the middle of Silicon Valley, at 1–6 Infinite Loop, Cupertino, California.
	Supporting Article: AppleInc.txt


6. Where did Apple open its first retail store?
	Exact Answer 1: Virginia
	Exact Answer 2: California
	Supporting Sentence: On May 19, 2001, Apple opened its first official eponymous retail stores in Virginia and California.
	Supporting Article: AppleInc.txt

	
7. When did Abraham Lincoln die?
	Exact Answer: April 1865 or April 15, 1865 or April 15
	Supporting Sentence 1: Abraham Thomas Lincoln (February 12, 1809 – April 15, 1865) was an American statesman, politician, and lawyer who served as the 16th president of the United States from 1861 until his assassination in April 1865.
	Supporting Sentence 2: After remaining in a coma for nine hours, Lincoln died at 7:22 am on April 15.
	Supporting Article: AbrahamLincoln.txt

	
8. Where did Thomas Lincoln purchase farms?
	Exact Answer: Kentucky
	Supporting Sentence: Thomas Lincoln bought or leased farms in Kentucky.
	Supporting Article: AbrahamLincoln.txt

	
9. When was the Gettysburg address by Abraham Lincoln?
	Exact Answer: November 19, 1863
	Supporting Sentence: Lincoln spoke at the Gettysburg battlefield cemetery on November 19, 1863
	Supporting Article: AbrahamLincoln.txt


10. Who founded UTD?
	Exact Answer 1: Eugene McDermott
	Exact Answer 2: Cecil Howard Green
	Exact Answer 3: J. Erik Jonsson
	Supporting Sentence: The UT Dallas founders, Eugene McDermott, Cecil Howard Green and J. Erik Jonsson, purchased Geophysical Service Incorporated (GSI) on December 6, 1941, the day before the attack on Pearl Harbor.
	Supporting Article: UTD.txt


11. When was UTD established?
	Exact Answer: June 13, 1969
	Supporting Sentence: On June 13, 1969 Governor Preston Smith signed the bill adding the institution to the University of Texas System and creating the University of Texas at Dallas.
	Supporting Article: UTD.txt


12. Where was Melinda born?
	Exact Answer: Dallas, Texas
	Supporting Sentence: Melinda Ann French was born on August 15, 1964 in Dallas, Texas.
	Supporting Article: MelindaGates.txt


13. Where is the birth place of Oprah Winfrey?
	Exact Answer: Mississippi
	Supporting Sentence: Winfrey was born into poverty in rural Mississippi to a teenage single mother and later raised in inner-city Milwaukee. 
	Supporting Article: OprahWifrey.txt

14. Where is the headquarters of AT&T?
	Exact Answer: Dallas, Texas
	Supporting Sentence: AT&T Inc. is an American multinational conglomerate holding company headquartered at Whitacre Tower in Downtown Dallas, Texas.
	Supporting Article: AT_T.txt


15. Where did AT&T spread to South America?
	Exact Answer: September 2013
	Supporting Sentence: In September 2013, AT&T Inc. announced it would expand into Latin America through a collaboration with América Móvil.
	Supporting Article: AT_T.txt


16. When did Warren Buffett buy Berkshire Hathaway's shares?
	Exact Answer: 1962
	Supporting Sentence: In 1962, Warren Buffett began buying stock in Berkshire Hathaway after noticing a pattern in the price direction of its stock whenever the company closed a mill. 
	Supporting Article: Berkshire_Hathaway.txt


17. When did Steve Jobs die?
	Exact Answer: October 5, 2011
	Supporting Sentence: On October 5, 2011, at the age of 56, Steve Jobs, the CEO of Apple, died due to complications from a relapse of his previously treated islet-cell neuroendocrine pancreatic cancer.
	Supporting Article: LaurenePowellJobs.txt


18. Where is the headquarters of Exxon Mobil?
	Exact Answer: Irving, Texas
	Supporting Sentence: Exxon Mobil Corporation, doing business as ExxonMobil, is an American multinational oil and gas corporation headquartered in Irving, Texas. 
	Supporting Article: ExxonMobil.txt


19. When was ExxonMobile created?
	Exact Answer: 1999
	Supporting Sentence: ExxonMobil was formed in 1999 by the merger of two major oil companies, Exxon and Mobil.
	Supporting Article: ExxonMobil.txt


20. Where is the headquarters of Amazon.com?
	Exact Answer: Seattle, Washington
	Supporting Sentence: Amazon.com, Inc. (), is an American multinational technology company based in Seattle, Washington that focuses in e-commerce, cloud computing, and artificial intelligence.
	Supporting Article: Amazon_com.txt



Hard Questions (Bonus Only):

1. Who shot Abraham Lincoln?
	Exact Answer: John Wilkes Booth
	Supporting Sentences: Lincoln managed his own re-election campaign. He sought to reconcile his damaged nation by avoiding retribution against the secessionists. A few days after the Battle of Appomattox Court House, he was shot by John Wilkes Booth, an actor and Confederate sympathizer, on April 14, 1865, and died the following day. Abraham Lincoln is remembered as the United States' martyr hero.
	Supporting Article: AbrahamLincoln.txt
	
2. Where is UTD located?
	Exact Answer: Richardson, Texas
	Supporting Sentences: The University of Texas at Dallas (UTD or UT Dallas) is a public research university in the University of Texas System. The main campus is in the Richardson, Texas, Telecom Corridor, 18 miles (29 km) north of Downtown Dallas.
	Supporting Article: UTD.txt